- [Instructor] Nothing says, oops,
like an exception message on a webpage.
It just looks bad, but it's also very dangerous.
Even more error handling can lead to sensitive data loss.
And as such we need to handle
all of these situations appropriately.
Let's start with discussing our exception handling
and the dangers that can arise from improperly doing so.
First of all, leaking an exception to the user interface
reveals detailed information about the system.
You are immediately telling the user or worse a bad actor,
a way to trigger an exception in your system.
You are also giving them insights
about your application as a whole.
Now, bad actors can use this data
especially a full stack trace to learn
about the internal structure of your application.
These stack traces, for instance,
in the UI, lets them know the languages that play
and the class structures and any additional components.
And this is what brings us to the real danger.
They can learn the internal components
of your application as a whole.
If you are using a dependency
that has a known vulnerability,
your stack trace may give them that insight.
In addition, it gives them more data
about what to try to use to attack your system,
stack traces are another of those tools
that are great for developers
which in turn makes them great for malicious developers.
So we get why exceptions are bad,
but what about when we actually control the exceptions
and use error messaging to indicate a bad state?
Now these two can be right for sensitive data leakage.
First of all,
inconsistent messaging can be used to gain information
about your system.
If error messages for a similar case are different
under different inputs, the bad actor can make assumptions
about the underlying data.
Mainly they can use this information to determine
if information is present.
Consider the case of a reset password page.
If you ask your users to provide an email address,
to send a password reset link
which is a great practice by the way,
you may think that you're safe,
but how you respond when the user exists
versus when they don't immediately lets your attacker know
if that person is in your system.
If your messaging in both cases isn't the same,
well, bad actors are smart
and they know how to read these messages.
This will amount to you leaking sensitive data by proxy,
a bad actor can collect information about users
and structure through these messages
and use it to their advantage.
They can brute force a user or file system to gain access.
In the user case,
they can impersonate your site through phishing attacks
and collect information about your users by proxy.
Again, there is so much possible here
because a dedicated bad actor only needs
a touch of information to do malicious things.
Any motivation to attack your system becomes enough.
So how do we mitigate these sensitive data leaks
caused by errors and exceptions?
Let me start by saying,
even the best laid plans can still be compromised.
There just isn't a good way to say
that your system is hacker proof
and anyone who does say that is a fool
and just asking to get attacked.
So first consider exception handling,
you should never allow an exception
to bubble up to your users,
trap everything through common mechanisms
and use standardized controls.
It is better that you simply return a 500 status code
to your user than an exception message.
Ideally, you control even the 500s
and push them into an error flow that you control.
But as long as the exception itself isn't leaked,
you are hiding the real cause.
Secondly, use consistent error messages.
Don't have different messages
for different states of an error.
You can use common messaging across the board
and let your users make the determination
of what that means.
Back to the password reset, if you simply say
that you're resetting the password
and you will send them a link
that doesn't really tell a user,
whether they're in the system or not,
but when they get the email, they will know.
So an attacker has no clue, but the user themselves does
kind of tangential to this concept,
but something I wanted to mention
is the thought of deny first.
Many times when dealing with security,
we have a permissive policy
and permissive policies can be very bad.
We should always deny first and never trust
that the user has access to any resource on the system
until we can prove they have access.
And then and only then do we grant it.
So it's really looking at the problem in a different way
instead of saying, if not restricted, give them access.
It's saying if restricted, don't give them access,
if not restricted, give them access.
So it's really looking at it from a denial first
and while that's not really exception related,
a lot of exceptions are generated by poor security.